The Karaoke Ruben’s Tube
This project will not be viewed indoors given that it involved flammable gas and lighting said flammable gas.  The area in which it will be viewed will hopefully be on a sidewalk or patio outside of the gallery we will use for our final projects.  The viewer will see at least one tube either made of metal or ABS that we have drilled a bunch of small holes into.  Gas will fill the inside and then be propelled out of the tube and lit so that it creates a very small flame for every hole (there will be 84 holes on a 4 foot pipe).  Then when we turn the music on people will see the fire react to the soundwaves being pushed into the tube causing the gas to be displaced.  Fire will change in height based on the pressure being forced at a certain interval of length based on where the hole is located and what note is being played.  Basically people will see fire dancing to music and it will be awesome.
From a technical perspective we are using soundwaves to displace lit propane in order to show the wavelengths of certain notes being played.  This means we need a fire proof tube, propane, a small speaker, a piece of latex, and some free time to put it all together.  As of right now the concept is to get a 4 foot piece of tubing and drill 84 holes at ½ inch intervals down the top using a 1/16 inch drill bit.  This will create holes that are close enough apart to help relight eachother but far enough and small enough to appear separate.  Once this is completed we will retrofit a 4 inch driver onto one end of the tube with a piece of latex stretched in between it and the gas.  This will be to protect the speaker as well as to have a drum effect on the soundwave making the displacement of the propane more intense inside the tube.  Then two gas feeds will be put into the sides of the tube allowing for equal distribution of fresh gas to enter the tube.  And finally the other end will simply be sealed.  Once this is all complete we can turn to our speaker set up and figure out some fun things to do with sound and fire.  My current idea is to use a laptop as a karaoke device and have a microphone for anyone who wants to sing and then have the music play externally and have the microphone be hooked up to the ruben’s tube.  This will require some karaoke software and a USB microphone as well as an amp to run the driver and external speaker.  I am basically the one designing the whole set up and will be building the ruben’s tube.  Ryan will be helping with the speaker set up and all audio issues.  Doug will be the go-to guy for any metal work as well as helping me build the final tube.
The meaning of our piece…… It is fire…. It is awesome…. I really think that should sum it up.  Everyone likes fire.  Visualizing fire to music is going to be freaking sweet so that is why it is interesting.  Culturally, we grow up to have a distinct appreciation for fire and therefore we adore it when used with art.  Many artists have done similar projects but I have never seen anyone do a Ruben’s Tube with Karaoke so hopefully that will be a first. 
